# Using Packages

Let's say you wanted to generate some code that uses [`elm-html`](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/html/latest/)!

`elm-codegen` can help you out with that.

If you haven't already, make a new codegen project by running `elm-codegen init`, like you did in [Getting Started](https://github.com/mdgriffith/elm-codegen/tree/main/guide/GettingStarted.md)

Now, run `cd codegen ; elm-codegen install elm/html`.

This will create the following files —

- `codegen/Gen/Html.elm`
- `codegen/Gen/Html/Attributes.elm`
- `codegen/Gen/Html/Events.elm`
- `codegen/Gen/Html/Lazy.elm`
- `codegen/Gen/Html/Keyed.elm`

We can use `Gen.Html` to help generate calls to `Html`.

```elm
import Gen.Html

div : Elm.Expression
div =
    Gen.Html.div
        [ Gen.Html.Attributes.class
            "hello"
        ]
        [ Gen.Html.text
            "Hello world!"
        ]

```

Will generate

```elm
Html.div
    [ Html.Attributes.class "hello" ]
    [ Html.text "Hello world!" ]
```

Crazy, right?

## Local Helpers

You may want use a local file instead of a published package

For this you can run `elm-codegen install MyLocalFile.elm` and helpers will be generated for that file.

You can also install by providing a `docs.json`, which is generated by the Elm compiler by running `elm make --docs=docs.json`.

Then you can run `elm-codegen install docs.json` to generate helpers for that module.

## What's in the box?

Let's take a peak into the `Gen/Html.elm` file. The hope is that it's not too hard to read once you get used to it.

The majority of what you'll find are _direct bindings_. These are things such as `Gen.Html.div`, which allow you to call a function much like you would in normal Elm, but have it generate that value for you instead of actually calling it.

Additionally though, there are a few other helpers —

1. `moduleName_` — The name of the module, as you'd probably expect.
2. `annotation_` — Helpers to construct a type annotation which can be used with `Elm.withType` or `Elm.value`
   - **Note!** `elm-codegen` has builtin type inference, so hopefully the number of times you need this is pretty low.
3. `make_` — Create a value of a type. `Gen.Maybe.make_.just (Elm.string "Hello")` would generate `Just "Hello"`.
4. `call_` — The top level "bindings" that are generated for you will take in actual primitives. However there are cases where you want to pass in an `Expression` to a function instead of an actual string! `call_` will allow you to do that. Sound confusing? Yeah, it is, check out the [Mastering Buildtime vs Runtime](https://github.com/mdgriffith/elm-codegen/tree/main/guide/MasteringBuildtimeVsRuntime.md) guide for more examples!

5. `values_` — In some cases you may need to do something fancier. The `values_` record will help you refer directly to a single value.
   So, `Gen.Html.values_.div` is an `Expression` which generates just `Html.div`.

There's one final thing you should read before you go!

🕶️ [Mastering Buildtime vs Runtime](https://github.com/mdgriffith/elm-codegen/tree/main/guide/MasteringBuildtimeVsRuntime.md)
